---
layout: post
title:      "Taking the hardest step: Actually deciding to learn"
date:       2021-01-26 19:16:01 +0000
permalink:  taking_the_hardest_step_actually_deciding_to_learn
---


This is my first blog post... a year after I started learning here. The title of this post has an important meaning, you need to make the decision to actually push yourself to learn. Over a year into doing this course, I have only gotten to doing my first portfolio project. Why is that? Well, to be honest it was a lot of dropping the ball on my end. I can blame it on a lot of craziness, or COVID-19 creating the craziest year of any of our lives, or maybe my ADHD making me binge all of Naruto: Shippuden. In all honesty, it was me just being scared. Scared of the future and what all that holds for me. There is no excuse for not succeeding in this for me. Now is the time where I need to buckle down and just get to work. Let me do a little background on me to give some context.

I'm currently only 19 years old, which is pretty young so my experience is pretty limited, but I've strived in software for longer than most my age. At 12 I got my first computer to truly call mine, and with it a massive book on the basics of python. Being as into games as I was as a kid, I always wanted to make my own. Many horrible text based RPG's and tons of spaghetti code later, I got through that whole book. I learned some basic HTML and played around with all of that knowledge for a few years.

In high school, I was enrolled in all of the Advance Placement classes I could and took computer science every semester. Working alongside my CompSci teacher on many small programs helped me to learn Java and about OO programming, polymorphism, and inheritence. I was well ahead of the curve and was on the track to do great things in programming. I had decided to go to a coding bootcamp in Fremont, CA named 42. I even visited the school and met with all of the coordinators. This is where that "being scared" came in. I bailed. I was afraid of going to California.

After enrolling at the local community college and deciding that traditional school was just not for me (or rather thats what I tell myself), I dropped out. So that is where Flatiron comes in. Not that I am saying Flatiron isn't an amazing institution, just the opposite actually. I had nowhere to go, or so it felt like. So I found a school where I wouldn't be scared to go anwhere or be in a class surrounded by people, it was all online. Until I realized that I'm just scared to fail. So I was scared to do any school work.

This post isn't really anything related to coding to be honest. No snippits of methods or going in depth on concepts. In all actuality it's more of a declaration to myself. I will post on this blog. I will finish this school work. I will get a job in development. Why this sudden change you may ask? Well, it's for a girl. Rather, two girls. In all that slacking off I met someone, fell in love, you know, the works. What wasn't in the works was a little girl that I will be honored to meet in August 2021. Let me tell you when I say that retail is not an easily sustainable income for a family. So I'm scared. Well, I'm not running from this one I can tell you that. Now I have a reason to push, not run. I will finally do what I set out to in the beginning, I'm going to be a developer. Take this blog post as my first step, my hardest step.

Thank you for dealing with my ramblings. This blog is honestly going to be something that is going to keep me on track, not just with my learnings, with how I am feeling with all of the craziness of my life. Of course it will pertain to school for the most part, and there will definitely be a lot of programming snippets of projects, but expect some of my personal thoughts and feelings to come out. Thank you for making it this far, if there is one thing to take away from this is that all progress is scary, and you just have to accept that. Be scared, but move forward anyways.
